Added content about handling alerts and best practices regarding Logging-Sentry (#182)
axelerant/engg-handbook: content/docs/how-we-work/baseline/_index.md

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Handling Alerts

#### Monitoring Alerts in Sentry

1. Access the Issues Dashboard

    * In Sentry, go to the **Issues** tab to view all logged errors and alerts. The Issues dashboard provides a comprehensive overview of all logged events, grouped by the type and frequency of occurrence.

2. Set Up Alert Rules:

   * Configure alert rules to receive notifications for specific issues. Navigate to **Project Settings** > **Alerts** and define the conditions for alerts. You can set up alerts based on various criteria such as event frequency, error severity, and affected users.

   * **Notification Settings**: Customize how and where you receive alerts. Options include email, SMS, Slack, or other third-party integrations. Make sure to configure these settings to ensure timely notifications.

>    * **Alert Thresholds**: Define thresholds for different alert types. For example, you might set a threshold to alert you only if an error occurs more than 10 times in an hour, helping to avoid alert fatigue.

Reviewer: This is already covered in the documentation. Instead, we should explain what kind of alert rules they should set up. Please write instructions to send alerts when an issue is seen more than 30 times per hour. They can create more alerts as they want.

> 3. Configure Slack Notifications:
>    * **Integrate Sentry with Slack**:
>      * Navigate to **Project Settings** > **Integrations**.
>      * Select **Slack** and follow the prompts to authenticate and authorize Sentry to access your Slack workspace.
>      * Choose the Slack channel where you want to receive alerts.
>    * **Set Up Slack Notification Rules**:
>      * In **Project Settings** > **Alerts**, create a new alert rule.
>      * Define the conditions for the alert, such as error type and frequency.
>      * Under **Actions**, select **Send a notification to Slack** and choose the integrated Slack channel.
>      * Save the rule to start receiving Slack notifications for the defined alerts.

Reviewer: I feel this is too detailed. Doesn't Sentry documentation already cover this? We should instead give a guideline on which channel to send notifications to.

```suggestion
3. Configure Slack Notifications: Follow the [documentation](link-here) to set up a Slack notification. Use your project's `#eng-` channel or `#feed-` channel to send notifications. In case you're not sure which channel to use, check with the team.
```

2. Integrate Sentry with your ticketing system: (e.g. Jira, Github Issues).
   * Navigate to **Project Settings** > **Integrations**.
   * Select **Jira** and follow the prompts to authenticate and authorize Sentry to access your Jira instance.
   * Configure the integration settings, such as default project and issue type, to streamline ticket creation.

3. Create a Ticket:
   * **Manually Creating a Ticket**:
     * Click on the **Create Issue** button in the alert details view.
     * Select **Jira** as the integration.
     * Fill in the ticket details, including the summary, description, and priority. Include all relevant information provided by Sentry to ensure the issue is well-documented.
     * Submit the ticket, which will then appear in your Jira project.
   * **Automatically Creating Tickets**:
     * Configure Sentry to automatically create Jira tickets for certain types of alerts. This can be done by setting up alert rules to trigger ticket creation.
     * In **Project Settings** > **Alerts**, create a new alert rule and specify the conditions (e.g., error type, frequency) and actions (create a Jira ticket).

>      * Define the default project, issue type, and other ticket fields to ensure consistency and streamline the process.

Reviewer: These are for two different audiences and it could end up confusing them. Point 2 is a one-time activity and there may be no alerts at that time. This is part of the set up for Sentry integration. The remaining points are something that a team member may do routinely when monitoring the project. Let's split it up along those lines: Sentry Setup and Routine Monitoring.

PS Setting up alerts in the previous section is also a one-time set up activity.

4. Managing Tickets in Jira:
   * Once a ticket is created, ensure it is assigned to the appropriate team or individual. Jira’s workflow management tools can help track the progress of the ticket from creation to resolution.
   * **Tracking and Reporting**: Use Jira’s reporting features to track the status of logged issues. Generate reports to identify trends, recurring issues, and areas for improvement.
   * **Comments and Updates**: Utilize Jira’s commenting system to add updates, discuss potential solutions, and collaborate with team members directly within the ticket.

### Best Practices

* Ensure Comprehensive Logging:

>   * Ensure all critical parts of your Drupal application are covered by logging. This includes user interactions, database queries, API calls, and third-party integrations.

Reviewer: How? That is what we should write here.

>   * **Error Levels**: Use appropriate error levels (debug, info, warning, error, critical) to categorize logs. This helps in filtering and prioritizing issues effectively.

Reviewer: Sentry is not a good fit for `debug` and `info` logs. In fact, we should explicitly mention in set up instructions that they should not send debug and info logs. Even warning may be too much but that may be for the team to decide.

  * **Log Retention Policies**: Implement log retention policies to manage log storage efficiently. Ensure that logs are archived and accessible for future reference.

* Optimize Alert Rules:
  * Fine-tune alert rules to minimize noise and focus on critical issues. Avoid over-alerting by setting appropriate thresholds and conditions for alerts.
  * **Alert Tuning**: Continuously monitor and adjust alert rules based on feedback and changing application behavior. Engage with the team to refine alert settings.

* Automate Ticket Creation:
  * Automate the ticket creation process to streamline incident management. Use Sentry’s integration capabilities to automatically create tickets for high-priority issues.
  * **Automation Tools**: Explore automation tools and scripts that can help in managing alerts and tickets more efficiently. This can include auto-assigning tickets, updating statuses, and notifying relevant stakeholders.

* Collaborate and Communicate:
  * Foster collaboration between development, operations, and support teams. Use Sentry’s collaboration features, such as comments and mentions, to communicate within the context of an alert.

>   * **Incident Response Plans**: Develop and maintain incident response plans. Conduct regular drills and reviews to ensure the team is prepared to handle incidents effectively.

Reviewer: For all of these points, we should write how they can do this. Be prescriptive and link to the documentation for all the details.
